.TH KLS 1 "May 2026" "kls 0.1.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kls \- a security-focused directory listing tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kls
[\fBOPTIONS\fR]... [\fBFILE\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kls
is a directory listing tool designed with a strong focus on security auditing, file capabilities, vulnerabilities, and filesystem anomalies. It serves as a modern alternative to the standard \fBls\fR(1) command, adding rich metadata and alerts regarding potential security risks.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Global Options
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable colored output.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Run in quiet mode (suppress verbose output). Conflicts with \fB\-\-verbose\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output. Conflicts with \fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR.
.SS Collection & Filtering Options
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
Include hidden files and directories (those starting with a dot `.`).
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-recursive
Recursively list subdirectories.
.TP
.BI \-d ", " \-\-depth " DEPTH"
Limit recursion depth to \fIDEPTH\fR levels. Requires \fB\-\-recursive\fR to be enabled.
.TP
.BI \-\-filter " PATTERN"
Only display files and directories matching the glob \fIPATTERN\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-modified\-before " DATE"
Only display entries modified before the specified \fIDATE\fR (format: YYYY-MM-DD).
.TP
.BI \-\-modified\-after " DATE"
Only display entries modified after the specified \fIDATE\fR (format: YYYY-MM-DD).
.TP
.B \-\-dirs\-only
Only show directories in the listing.
.TP
.B \-\-file\-only
Only show regular files, excluding directories and symbolic links.
.TP
.BI \-\-ext " EXTENSIONS"
Only display files with extensions matching the comma-separated list in \fIEXTENSIONS\fR (e.g., \fBtxt,cpp,h\fR).
.SS Sorting Options
.TP
.BI \-\-sort " CRITERIA"
Sort the listing by \fICRITERIA\fR. Supported criteria values are:
.RS
.IP "\fBname\fR" 12
Sort alphabetically by name (default).
.IP "\fBsize\fR" 12
Sort by size in descending order, breaking ties by name.
.IP "\fBtype\fR" 12
Sort by entry type, putting directories first.
.IP "\fBmodified\fR" 12
Sort by modification time.
.IP "\fBext\fR or \fBextension\fR" 12
Sort alphabetically by file extension.
.IP "\fBseverity\fR" 12
Sort by security alert severity (entries with more severe issues first).
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-reverse
Reverse the order of the sort.
.TP
.B \-\-dirs\-first
List directories before other files.
.SS Presentation Options
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-long
Use a long listing format displaying permissions, owner, group, size, modification date, and related properties.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-header
Suppress the column headers in the output.
.TP
.B \-\-stats
Display execution statistics and metrics at the end of the listing.
.SS Security & Health Options
.TP
.B \-\-health
Enable security health analysis, showing alerts and warnings for potential vulnerabilities (e.g., broken symbolic links, world-writable files).
.TP
.B \-\-no\-health
Disable security health analysis display.
.TP
.B \-\-only\-alerts
Only display filesystem entries that trigger a security health alert.
.TP
.B \-\-attack\-surface
Enable a presentation view highlighting the attack surface of each entry (permissions, capabilities, setuid/setgid flags).
.TP
.B \-\-alerts\-first
Sort the listing so that entries with active security health alerts appear first.
.TP
.B \-\-security\-report
Generate and display a detailed security report summarizing the findings.
.TP
.B \-\-immutable
Display files with the immutable attribute (if supported by the underlying filesystem).
.TP
.B \-\-setuid\-tree
Recursively scan and display the tree of directories focusing on SetUID and SetGID files.
.TP
.B \-\-timeline
Present file history or timeline based on filesystem timestamps.
.TP
.BI \-\-min\-severity " SEVERITY"
Filter security health alerts to only show entries with a severity of at least \fISEVERITY\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-only\-anomalies
Only show anomalous filesystem entries (such as hidden files, suspicious permissions, or invalid symbolic links).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
General failure or incorrect usage of arguments.
.TP
.B 2
Filesystem access error or command interruption.
.SH EXAMPLES
Show all files in the current directory in long format:
.IP
.B kls -a -l
.PP
Recursively search for files modified after May 1st, 2026, and show only security alerts:
.IP
.B kls --recursive --modified-after 2026-05-01 --only-alerts
.PP
Sort directories first and show the attack surface details:
.IP
.B kls --dirs-first --attack-surface
.SH AUTHOR
Created and maintained by Jeremy Nobel <jeremynobel16@gmail.com>.
